+++
title = "The Sign of Jonah for an Evil Generation"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-04"
categories = [
    "Wednesday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Wednesday of the First Week in Lent Year A 2020                          
Jonah 3:1-10     
Psalms 51:3-4, 12-13, 18-19           
Luke 11:29-32
```

When I see any reference to Jonah, I think of the story of the little girl who in Sunday school was mesmerized with the account of Jonah being swallowed by a whale and spending three days and nights in the whale’s belly. The next day in science class, she very excitedly recounts the story to her science teacher. The teacher, who happened to be an atheist, tells her that her story was scientifically inaccurate as it was not possible for a whale to swallow a human because its throat was very small. The girl however did not relent and steadfastly reiterated that the Bible did say that the whale swallowed Jonah. The irritated teacher once again claims the impossibility of that happening. The little girl does not give up and tells the teacher that when she dies and goes to heaven she will ask Jonah. The teacher sarcastically replied “What if Jonah isn’t in heaven?” Without batting an eyelid, the girl replies, “If that is the case, then you ask him.” 
   
When it comes to the religious dimension of life, the hankering after the spectacular and unusual will always be there. Jesus had to deal with that in his own day. People wanted some spectacular sign from him to establish beyond doubt that he was who he said he was. In today’s gospel reading Jesus addresses the crowds who gather around him as a wicked generation because they are asking for a sign. Jesus accuses his contemporaries of failing to see what is there before them. They want signs and yet all they need already stands in front of them in the person of Jesus, someone greater than Solomon, greater than Jonah, greater than all the prophets and kings of Israel. 

>Today people can be very impressed by visionaries who claim to have visions that are denied to the rest of believers. The church has traditionally been very wary of all such claims. 

The Lord has already given us all we need in and through the church, the community of believers. There we will find the living word of God; we will find the Eucharist and the other sacraments; we will find Jesus present among and within his followers. We need nothing more. **What Jesus looks for from us is a generous response to all that we have been given.** Having been graced by the Lord’s presence, we are to respond to his presence by living in a graced way.

>Lent is a good time to become more aware of the many ways the Lord is present to us in all his greatness and wonder.  

We pray that this season of Lent would help us to live that calling more fully.
