+++
title = "Live life above average with spirit of consistency"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-06"
categories = [
    "Friday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Friday of the first week in Lent Year A 2020

Ezekiel 18:21-28
Psalm 130:1-8
Matthew 5:20-26

```
 
No one likes to be told what to do. In general, we dislike laws and regulations. Rules can vary from being annoying to stifling to burdensome. As a result, we try to find ways to avoid following the rules and look for short cut. **We ask ourselves how we can get away with doing the minimum.**

Jesus challenges this minimalist approach to the law. Jesus tries to explain how the teaching of the law and the prophets have an internal aspect that surpasses the simple literal interpretation. In other words, Jesus is trying to get people to understand **the law as a way to love one another in a profound way** that surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees. And this is a huge challenge. You can’t legislate love. You can’t demand that people love one another. **Love must be freely given**. And we don’t express our love on a balance sheet. 

Our first reading reminds us that if a wicked man turns away from his sins, he will live. It doesn’t matter what wicked deeds he performed in the past. None of those crimes will be remembered. Likewise, if a virtuous person turns from the path of virtue to do evil, then that person will die. It doesn’t matter how many great and virtuous deeds that person had performed in the past. 

>There is no cosmic balancing sheet weighing our good deeds against our evil deeds.

Jesus re-interprets the commandment, _“Do not kill,”_ to suggest that anger is a form of killing. Anger prevents us from reconciling with our loved ones and so can _kill_ a relationship. I’m sure we can think of people who, out of anger, have cut a loved one out of their lives. We can act on our feelings of anger in ways that take the form of killing. To the extent that we allow our anger to cripple our relationships with others and with God, to the extent that our anger stifles healing and reconciliation, to the extent that our anger prevents us from loving others and God, then we are guilty of killing.

God did not give us the commandments simply so we can get along with each other as if we were all passengers on a public bus. The commandments establish a **minimum standard of behavior so we can be free to love each other and to love God as children of God**. We must not simply follow the literal, minimum requirements of the law. Instead, we must live within the law so we can be free to deepen our love for one another and God.

## Prayer

Creator of my life, renew me: bring me to new life in you.  
Touch me and make me feel whole again.  
Help me to see your love in the passion, death and resurrection of your son.  
Help me to observe Lent in a way that allows me to celebrate that love.  
Prepare me for these weeks of Lent as I feel both deep sorrows for my sins and your undying love for me.   
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**