+++
title = "Turn our hearts to you, Eternal Father"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-07"
categories = [
    "Saturday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Saturday of the First Week of Lent Year A 2020

Deuteronomy 26:16-19
Psalms 119:1-2, 4-5, 7-8
Matthew 5:43-48

```

When I got to the end of the Gospel reading for today, I sighed. A big sigh. Jesus doesn’t make it easy. Be perfect. Love your enemies. 

>In a time of polarizing partisanship with name-calling and filter bubbles, I tend to wrap myself in indignation and superiority over those I consider wrong and against what I stand for. 

And this particular Gospel also comes at a particularly opportune time of the state of our country Nigeria to pop those filter bubbles and get people in conflict to talk to each other more about what brings us together than what separates us. The approach is a different one for many of us Christians or Moslems, both the leaders and the lead, as we tend to look for problems and conflicts. What happens if we look for solutions and what we all value? 

Today’s Gospel makes us think of how this will help shape and to spill into the rest of our lives. Let us think: **Assume good intentions of everyone**. Be open to people we may not agree with. That person we work with who can put us on edge – assume good intentions when that person offers a comment or asks a question. Be the person to compromise instead of pushing to make sure we win when a compromise can help all of us. Assuming good intentions changes the dynamic. We can feel a letting go of that indignation and superiority. And it’s a good feeling.

**We might not feel we have enemies, but we all engage in little battles that keep us from being open and loving**. Let’s drop that chip from our shoulders. Let’s be the first to reach out. Let’s say “I was wrong”. Let’s assume good intentions. God, we pray that you should help us find the grace to seek out the ways large and small where we can reduce conflict, assume good intentions and love our enemies. 


## Prayer

Loving God,  
sometimes my heart turns in every direction except towards you.  
Please help me to turn my heart toward you, to gaze upon you in trust  
and to seek your kingdom with all of my heart.  Soften my hardened heart  
so that I might love others as a way to glorify and worship you.  
Grant me this with the ever-present guidance of your spirit. 
