+++
title = "Lord, do not deal with us according to our sins"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-09"
categories = [
    "Monday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Monday of the Second Week of Lent Year A 2020

Daniel 94B-10
Psalms 798, 9, 11 and 13
Luke 636-38

```

We live in such an individualistic society. We may be part of a church, club, or family but it is easy for many to disown the group when things are not as they should be.

The first reading from the Book of Daniel is one of the great acts of sorrow to God for sin in the Bible. It is prayed on behalf of the whole nation. He himself has done nothing wrong. He is described as a thoroughly righteous man. It might have been easy for him to distance himself from his people but notice how he identifies with them. It is a prayer that expresses both a great sorrow for sin and a great confidence in God’s mercy, _"we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God mercy and pardon belong, because we have betrayed him"_. Humility and trust are very clearly revealed in the prayer. We need both when we come before the Lord.

>The humility to acknowledge that we have not always lived as God calls us to live.  
>The total trust in God’s mercy which is always stronger than sin.

It can be fairly easy to get mad at our family or our church and begin to rail against they and them. However, like bishops apologizing for the sins of their dioceses, a diocese they weren't even in when those sins occurred, that is what a righteous person does. We are in this together and when any of us sins it falls upon all of us to own it and work to change what is happening. Quitting or ranting against them wasn't for Daniel. Daniel is teaching us a lot about how to be better community members.

In the gospel reading, Jesus speaks of God as a compassionate Father. There is a close connection between compassion and mercy. **When we feel with others and for others, it is easier to forgive their failings towards us**. When we suffer with them, when we enter into their situation, then forgiveness comes easier to us. God suffered with us, entered fully into our human situation, through the incarnation of his Son. As Christians, we have an even clearer understanding of God as compassionate and merciful than the writers of the Jewish Scriptures because we believe that God became like us in all things, except sin. 

Jesus asks us to be as compassionate and as merciful as God is, which will mean being slow to judge, slow to condemn others. We live in a culture where there is so often a rush to judgment. Jesus calls on us **not to take our lead from the culture but from God** who never rushes to judgment.


## Prayer

Lord,
Your commandment of love is so simple and so challenging.  
Help me to let go of my pride, to be humble in my penance.  
I want only to live the way you ask me to love, to love the way you ask me to live.   
I ask this through your son, Jesus, who stands at my side today and always.  
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**