+++
title = "They do not practise what they preach"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-10"
categories = [
    "Tuesday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Tuesday of the Second Week in Lent Year A 2020

Isaiah 1:10, 16-20
Psalms 50:8-9, 16bc-17, 21 and 23
Matthew 23:1-12
```


In the gospel reading Jesus contrasts the attitude of the religious leaders of his day who wanted and expected to receive various forms of honour with what should be the attitude of his own disciples, namely the readiness and willingness to serve others.

Jesus was not opposed to some form of leadership among his own followers. Jesus appointed Peter as the rock on which he would build his church and entrusted to him a share in his own teaching authority. As Jesus says towards the end of that reading, _"the greatest among you must be your servant"_. Jesus defines greatness in terms of service of others. Rather than looking for honours from others, Jesus puts before us the ideal of honouring others by serving them. Rather than trying to attract attention to themselves, like the religious leaders of his day, Jesus calls on his disciples to give attention to others. 

>It is those who humble themselves in the service of others who will be exalted, whereas those who exalt themselves and look for honour for themselves will be humbled. 

Jesus gives expression to his teaching in his own life. 

Paul says of Jesus that he emptied himself taking the form of a servant and that he humbled himself, even to the point of death, death on a cross. We are called to have the same mind that was in Christ Jesus. Lent is a time when we try to enter more fully into the mind and heart of Jesus. God, help us to set things right. Show us Your face.

## Prayer
 
God in heaven and in my life, guide me and protect me.  
I so often believe I can save myself and I always end in failure.  
Lead me with your love away from harm and guide me on the right path.  
May your Spirit inspire the Church and make us an instrument of your love and guidance.  
Thank you for your care for me.   
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**
