+++
title = "The Son of Man came not to be served but to serve"
description = ""
date = "2020-03-11"
categories = [
    "Wednesday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Wednesday of the Second Week of Lent Year A

Jeremiah 18:18-20
Psalms 31:5-6, 14, 15-16
Matthew 20:17-28
```

We often find in the Jewish Scriptures that those who are in some dire situation address an agonizing question to God. One such example is to be found in today’s first reading. In response to those who are plotting his downfall, Jeremiah asks God, _"Should evil be returned for good?"_ Although, in theory, we would answer ‘no’ to Jeremiah’s question, in practice we are all aware that evil is often returned for good. Jesus exemplifies that sad reality of life more than anyone. **He was God’s goodness personified and yet he suffered the evil of crucifixion.** In the gospel reading, Jesus attempts to get his disciples to face this prospect, _"The Son of Man is about to be handed over to the chief priests and scribes. They will condemn him to death…"_ Yet, the remainder of the gospel reading shows that the disciples could not imagine that evil would be returned for good, in the case of Jesus, or themselves.

James and John express their desire, through their mother, for a significant share of the presumed reward that God would give Jesus for his goodness. The other ten were probably of a similar mind-set. The question that Jesus asked James and John is one that he addresses to us all. His response to this preoccupation is sobering for his disciples and for the church today.   He wanted to know how committed we are to his way of life, to the values he lived by and died for. Like the mother of James and John, we often ask the Lord for something in prayer.

**Goodness itself is to be the concern of his disciples, not the reward for goodness.** Jesus understands goodness here in terms of the loving service of others, after the example of the Son of Man who came not to be served but to serve. The focus of Jesus’ disciples, the church, is to embody, in the here and now, his self-emptying service of others. The reward for such goodness is a matter for God the Father.

**Every day we are invited to drink from the Lord’s cup, the cup of the Eucharist.** In doing so, we are expressing our willingness to going where the Lord leads, walking in his way, even when it means the way of the cross. We pray that in taking the body and the cup of the Lord at this Eucharist, we would be faithful to what that action signifies, walking in the footsteps of the Son of Man who came not to be served but to serve.

During this season of Lent, **we can choose to slow down.**  We can sit with Jesus, share everything with Him, and ask for help to turn away from our disordered attachments.  Like the Psalmist, we can trust in God’s mercy and God’s desire to draw us back to Him, leaving behind our desire for 'shallow things.'   

> “But my trust is in you, O Lord; I say, ‘You are my God.’ In your hands is my destiny;”  
 (Ps 31:14-15)

## Prayer  
God of Love, through this Lenten journey, purify my desires to serve you.  
Free me from any temptations to judge others, to place myself above others.  
Please let me surrender even my impatience with others, that with your love and your grace, I might be less and less absorbed with myself, and more and more full of the desire to follow you, in laying down my life according to your example.  
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**

