+++
title = "They will respect my Son"
description = ""
date = "2020-03-13"
categories = [
    "Friday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Friday of the Second Week of Lent Year A 2020

Genesis 37:3-4, 12-13a, 17b-28a   
Psalms 105:16-17, 18-19, 20-21 
Matthew 21:33-43, 45-46
```

Believe it or not, today’s readings present not just two stories that mirror each other—the story of Joseph rejected by his brothers (who will emerge to becomes their saviour)  and the story of Jesus rejected by the leaders of his day (only to become the saviour of his people) — but four stories that all have this same theme: **The rejected one becomes the saviour.** Let me explain.

When Jesus begins to realize that the religious leadership, together with their Roman oppressors, are planning to have him killed, he reaches back to a parable that Isaiah told some seven centuries earlier—Isaiah 5:1-7, the parable of the vineyard that produced wild grapes and is therefore rejected by the Lord God. Isaiah explains this parable as standing for the people of Israel, led by wealthy leaders who have been self-indulgent and violent, and forgetful of God’s ownership of the vineyard of Israel (Isa 5:8-12). Jesus updates that parable and applies it to what the religious and imperial powers are doing in his own day which is thinking of only of themselves and using violence (like killing him!) to implement their selfish desires and control events for their own purposes.

The Lectionary tradition that joins this reading to the Genesis story of Joseph’s brothers “removing” him to implement their violent jealousy because they (i.e. the designers of the Lectionary) discern a similar pattern: the rejected one will become the saviour.  So far, we have three stories: the Joseph story, the parable of Isaiah and the passion and resurrection of Jesus exhibiting this divine plot.

The early church found in those words of an ancient psalm the perfect summary of the Paschal mystery. While the original psalmist seems to be speaking about the eventual thriving of tyrannized Israel, those words are now wonderfully fulfilled in the life death and resurrection of Jesus. The “builders” (the religious and imperial authorities of Jesus’ day) reject Jesus (like quarrymen rejecting a block of limestone as not worthy of their building plans) by killing him; but Jesus is raised from the dead and becomes the foundation stone of the New Temple that is the renewed people of God, the Church. 

The story of Joseph and Jesus reminds us that **God can turn even our worst instincts to a good purpose.** Jesus’ experience of rejection did not have the last word. God worked powerfully in and through that experience of rejection and brought great good of it, not only for Jesus but for all who believe in him. 

There may be times in our lives when we feel a little bit like the rejected stone.

> We reach out to someone and they spurn us or do not respond to us. We can feel hurt and upset, annoyed with ourselves for leaving ourselves so vulnerable. Yet, those painful experiences in life can contain the seeds of new life. The Lord can work powerfully through them for our ultimate good. 

The experience that we might have considered at the time as totally negative turns out to bear rich fruit in our lives. We learn something from it; we grow through it. 

What seemed like an experience of death becomes a moment of new life. The Lord can always transform the rejected stone into the keystone. What he did for his Son he can do for us all. And so, already this early in Lent, we are given a glimpse of what will happen in the death and resurrection of Jesus that we celebrate during Passion Week, Easter, and Pentecost.

## Prayer

God of Mercy,  
I feel my heart overflowing with your tenderness.  
I sense your loving touch deep within my soul.  
I ask for your help in my weakness that I might be faithful to your word   
and I am so grateful that your mercy for my failings is as strong as your unbounded love for me.  
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**

