+++
title = "God, be merciful to me a sinner"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-21"
categories = [
    "Saturday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Saturday of the Third Week of Lent Year A 2020*

Hosea 6:1-6.
Psalm 51:3-4.18-19.20-21ab.
Luke 18:9-14.

```

In both readings today, there is a contrast between what God wants and what people bring him.

In the first reading, the people bring sacrifices and holocausts to God in the Temple, but in response God, speaking through the prophet Hosea, says, ‘what I want is love, not sacrifice; knowledge of God, not holocausts’. God wants the love of his people, a love that finds expression in the love of others. 

In the parable Jesus speaks in the gospel reading, the Pharisee lists what he brings to God. He fasts twice a week; he pays tithes on all he gets; he is not grasping, unjust or adulterous. All of that is true. However, what he brings to God is not accompanied by love, in particular, love of others.

While telling God in prayer what he offers him, he is, at that very moment, looking down on a fellow worshipper, the tax collector. Indeed, he is despising him. He hasn’t been listening to God’s word spoken through the prophet Hosea, ‘what I want is love’. His prayer is not the kind of prayer that God wants. 

The prayer of the tax collector is much simpler, but more authentic, ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner’. There is no lack of love towards others in his prayer. His focus is on his own failure to do what God wants, his sin. In the language of today’s responsorial psalm, he prays with a ‘contrite spirit, a humbled, contrite heart’. This is one expression of what God does want. ‘A humbled, contrite heart you will not spurn’. 

>We can all make our own that simple prayer of the tax collector, ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner’. 
We can pray that prayer in the knowledge that such a prayer is always acceptable to God. It always corresponds to what God wants.

The season of Lent is a time for deepening humility. How do we grow in humility?
By consciously being dependent on God and recognise our constant need of Him and each time we acknowledge that our talents are from Him, we are being humble.

## Reflect:

How does the tenor of your prayers reflect who God is in your life: principal actor or a member of the audience?

## Prayer

God of infinite love,  
I thank you for this reminder of your love  
and your call that I be more patient,  
gentle and compassionate with others.  
Here in the middle of Lent,  
I turn to you to beg for your help.  
Please soften my heart.  
Help me to let go of judging others.    
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**
