+++
title = "I am the light of the world"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-22"
categories = [
    "Sunday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Fourth Sunday of Lent Year A 2020.

Samuel 16:1b.6-7.10-13a.
Psalm 23:1-3a.3h-4.5.
Ephesians 5:8-14.
John 9:1-41.


```

The weather is becoming hotter and with the longer hours of daylight than night, the flowers begin to spring, trees budding and green foilage appear. The warmth of the light from the sun is rejuvenating, not only for nature but also for our personal wellbeing.

But the light of the sun is not the only light that is available to make our days more enjoyable, for we can also _choose_ to walk in the light of the Lord. 

Today’s reading in Ephesians is direct and to the point. _“Brothers and sisters: You were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light, for light produces every kind of goodness and righteousness and truth.”_ But alas, as with so many of the readings in the Bible, it is easier said than done.

Now that we are a little past the mid-point of Lent and continuing our preparation for Easter, let’s remind ourselves we are “children of the light” and also of the responsibility that comes with such a wonderful blessing, a responsibility not only to others but also to ourselves. 

Granted, there are some who prefer darkness to light, for in the shadows their faults and wrongdoings are less likely to be exposed.  We, too, were once in darkness, but through our baptism and faith we were brought into the light. 

So how do we choose to continue to walk in the light of the Lord and, “take no part in the fruitless works of darkness; rather expose them, for it is shameful even to mention the things done by them in secret?” Is it by giving up certain habits for Lent or social media? While both are acts of self-discipline, is that how we live our faith and let our light shine?

We should shine that light inwardly on ourselves and search in all the dark corners for our spiritual shortcomings, be they excessive pride, envy, or greed, to name but a few that love to grow in the dark recesses of our souls. For in addition to helping us see our shortcomings, the light, just as with nature, can help us grow stronger, to learn to be more Christ-like in how we live our lives and generous with our love and understanding for others and to grow our faith.

For the remainder of this Lenten season, let’s strive to stay in the spotlight of Christ, for light produces every kind of goodness and righteousness and truth. And as Matthew wrote, _Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven_.

## Reflect:

How is the Christian way of seeing different from the culture’s way of seeing?


## Prayer
God who created me,  
You offer me new life through your Son  
and through the gift of your sacraments.  
While I see new life all around me,  
I don't always recognize the new life you offer me.  
Help me to grow this Lent in an awareness of the
gifts you place in my life  
and in a greater appreciation for your care.  
Give me the courage to ask for help.    
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**