+++
title = "Miracles are more than magic"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-23"
categories = [
    "Monday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Monday of the Fourth Week of Lent Year A 2020

Isaiah 65:17-21
Psalms 30:2 and 4, 5-6, 11-12a, and 13b
John 4:43-54

```


In today’s first reading, the prophet Isaiah is preaching to a people who have been recently traumatized by the experience of exile. They had returned home to a land and a city that was in ruins. At such a moment, the prophet speaks a message of hope from the Lord, _‘I create new heavens and a new earth, and the past will not be remembered… I now create Jerusalem “Joy” and her people “Gladness”’_. 

The creator God is creating something new and wonderful out of the ruins of exile and loss. This was a message of hope that the people needed to hear if they were to begin the work of rebuilding what had been destroyed. We need messengers of hope when times are bleak, as at this present time of national and global crisis. 

As people of faith, we are always people of hope, because we believe in a God who can bring new life out of death, and create new beginnings from losses and endings. It was above all in and through Jesus that God revealed himself to be the Life-Giver. 

Jesus spoke of himself as the Bread of Life, the Resurrection and the Life, the Way, the Truth and the Life. He said that he came that we may have life and have it to the full. In today’s gospel reading, he brings new life to the seriously ill son of a court official. When Jesus told the court official that his son would live, the gospel reading says that ‘the man believed what Jesus had said and started on his way’. 

He had a hopeful faith as he started back for home. We too need a hopeful faith, especially in these troubling and anxious days. Such hopeful faith is more than optimism. It is a hope which springs from our faith in the Lord of life who is always creatively at work in every situation, no matter how unpromising it may be from human point of view.

## Reflect:

How do you need Jesus to heal you?

## Prayer
God who created me,   
You offer me new life through your Son and   through the gift of your sacraments.    
While I see new life all around me,    
I don't always recognize the new life you offer me.  
Help me to grow this Lent in an awareness of the gifts you place in my life and in a     
greater appreciation for your care.    
Give me the courage to ask for help.     
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**