+++
title = "I am the Handmaid of the Lord"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-25"
categories = [
    "Wednesday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Solemnity of the Annunciation of the Lord

Isaiah 7:10-14; 8:10
Psalms 40:7-8A, 8B-9, 10, 11
Hebrews 10:4-10
Luke 1:26-38
```

Just when people think they have God figured out, that they know what God wants from them, God instead surprises them.

In the first reading, the Lord tells Ahaz to ask for a sign, but Ahaz, based on his preconceived ideas about how God operates, refuses. To do what God asks would violate what he believes God prefers. Never mind that God is telling him something new, something different. His mind is made up; closed off.

Isaiah then says this sort of behaviour – preferring our own ways and beliefs to the reality of the Holy Spirit all around us – is wearisome to God. And out of that frustration, that weariness, comes the greatest revelation and prophecy ever made – the prophecy about God taking on human flesh, becoming a living, breathing human being, born of a virgin. How’s that for being a surprising turn of events?

Paul’s letter to the Hebrews contains more surprises. He states that it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins (which is in opposition to what many Hebrews at the time believed) and he quotes Jesus, who in turn was quoting scriptures that make up today’s responsorial psalms.

So God, throughout history, had been giving a message that what God desired was people’s hearts, not superficial, ritualistic sin offerings. The psalmist revealed it, Jesus confirmed it, and then settled it once and for all with his own sacrifice as proof. Surprising news to many once again!

Then we come to the Gospel, the Annunciation, wherein the surprising God fulfills the prophecy with the cooperation of a young Hebrew woman named Mary. Mary was certainly surprised, but not so much that she said no. 

The question of Mary in today’s gospel reading ‘How can this come about?’ is a very human one. It is the kind of question that is asked by others in the gospels. When Jesus was with his disciples in the wilderness in the presence of a hungry crowd, they asked him, ‘How can one feed these people with bread here in the desert?’ 

When we stand before a situation which seems beyond our resources to deal with, we all find ourselves asking the same kind of question, ‘How can this be?’ ‘How will I get through this?’ It is a question many people are asking in this time of national and global emergency. The angel Gabriel’s answer to this question of Mary invited her to trust not in herself but in God. ‘The Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you’. 

A lot was being asked of Mary and it would make great demands on her, but she was not being asked to take on this task of being mother to God’s Son on the basis of her own resources alone. With this reassurance, she surrendered to the demanding task that God was giving her, ‘Let what you have said be done to me’. Mary has often been described as a model disciple. In today’s gospel reading, she models a faith that trusts in God’s power and, because it trusts in God’s power, stands ready to do what God asks. 

The lesson for us here is that **God is full of the unexpected**. We must not put God in a set, confining, constricting and limiting the understanding that we have. God enjoys surprising us, so we must remain open to the wonders of the Lord.

The question, ‘How can this be?’ or ‘How will I get through this?’ can inhibit us, but, as in the case of Mary, it can also open us up to the working of the Holy Spirit within us, through us and among us.

## Reflect
What is revealed here about God’s timing and his promises?

## Prayer

God who created me,  
You offer me new life through your Son and   through the gift of your sacraments.  
While I see new life all around me,   
I don't always recognize the new life you offer me.  
Help me to grow this Lent in an awareness of the gifts you place in my life and in a greater appreciation for your care.  
Give us the courage to ask for help   
and may your Church may be guided by your eternal design and not be deprived of your help in this present age and global challenges.  
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**