+++
title = "Fasting and Abstinence"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-02-26"
categories = [
    "Wednesday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Ash Wednesday Year A 2020

Joel 2: 12- 18 
2 Cor. 5:20- 6:2
Matthew 6:1-6, 16-18

```

Today the whole church begins a very intense spiritual journey. It is a journey of repentance, a journey of renewal, a journey of conversion and a journey of healing. Whatever forms the journey may take, it is always a journey back into the heart of God. It is not just today but even for the whole season of Lent, that we are called to deepen our spiritual life with penance and repentance. Concretely and practically speaking, the gospel gives three forms spiritual exercise:
1.	Prayer  
2.	Fasting  
3.	Almsgiving    

In today’s Mass, the ashes will be put on the forehead with either of these words:  
> “Repent and believe the Gospel”  
> “Remember you are dust and unto dust you shall return”  
	
As we look at the ashes, a thought or two may surface in our minds. We cannot reverse the process, we cannot change it back to what it was before, and it cannot be recovered to its former state. So also like ashes, we will eventually turn to dust, for we are dust and unto dust we shall return, we are all walking dust. 

> So when we realize that all will turn to ashes, that all things will pass, that our existence will fade off one day, we must then turn to God and surrender the ashes our lives in penance and repentance.

Let us turn to the Lord now, for He is all tenderness and compassion slow to anger, rich in mercy. Let us not delay, let us not procrastinate, because now is the time of grace. Today the God of our salvation is knocking on the door of our hearts. Let us open our hearts to Him and be filled with His grace.

**May the spiritual disciplines of prayer, fasting and almsgiving help us to rise from ashes and to a new life that will give glory to God. Amen.**

Welcome to LENT. 