+++
title = "Love, Obey and Stay"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-02-27"
categories = [
    "Thursday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Thursday after Ash Wednesday Year A 2020

Deuteronomy 30: 15-20
Luke 9: 22-25

```

I certainly cannot remember the exact moment when the ashes got rubbed off my forehead yesterday. Not that I am bothered anyway – it was an outward sign pointing to an inward effect. It called us to repentance and conversion, while reminding us where we shall go after now.

By now the ashes must have left our foreheads too – sweat, wind, morning shower, or an overnight transfer onto our pillows. It’s Thursday and the ashes are gone, but the Holy Season of Lent is still just beginning. Churches were filled up yesterday for the ash and the ceremony of the beginning of the Lenten Season. Whether it will translate to something deeper is a question we will have to answer individually. One thing is sure – we all made the choice to come yesterday.

> The freedom of choice is certainly not a small matter o! In fact the freedom of choice is the same as power of choice. And the choice is the power we all have within. And that power of choice is exercised over ourselves, over others and even God.

Making choices can be difficult. And if the choices are difficult to make, then it may seem that the choice between life and death would be very easy. We all want life. But then we need to be aware that our culture, with its emphasis on escaping pain at all cost, can easily lead us to emotional, spiritual, and even physical death.

Moses understood these in the first reading, and that is why he put before the people a choice between life and death, prosperity and disaster, blessing and curse.

In the gospel also, Jesus also put a choice before us, If we want to follow Him, we  have to renounce ourselves and take up our cross every day.

So whatever we are today is as a result of the choices we have made, so also whatever we will be will still be as a result of the choices we will make.

> This is so because yesterday is history, today is reality and tomorrow is mystery.*

**May our choice be for God, to love Him, and to be loving to those around us and to help them to choose the reward of eternal life. Amen.**
