+++
title = "They would have arrested him but his time had not yet come"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-27"
categories = [
    "Friday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Friday of the Fourth Week of Lent Year 2020

Wisdom 2:1a, 12-22
Psalms 34:17-1, 19-20, 21 and 23
John 7:1-2, 10, 25-30

```

The Book of Wisdom from which our first reading came was written less than one hundred years before the coming of Jesus. It is probably closer to the time of Jesus than any other book of the Old Testament. 

In our reading, the author places a little speech on the lips of those who were hostile to people of faith, those who took their Jewish faith seriously. They begin by saying, ‘Let us lie in wait for the virtuous person’. They go on to say, ‘the very sight of him weighs our spirits down’. They conclude by declaring, ‘Let us condemn him to a shameful death’. The early church recognized in this speech a prophecy of what was to happen to Jesus. He would be condemned to a shameful death by those who could not stand the sight of him. 

The Prophets in the Hebrew Scriptures, such as Jeremiah and Amos, were definitely unpopular for the smell and sounds of their words directed at the religious leaders of their times. The First Reading is quite a helpful introduction to our Gospel for this liturgy. In today’s Gospel Jesus proclaims during the Feast of Tabernacles that the Father has sent him. 

Two weeks from today is the liturgy of Good Friday. These Readings are setting in motion, quite dramatically, our prayer as we move toward that celebration.

In today’s gospel reading, we sense the unveiled hostility towards Jesus. We are told that the Jewish authorities ‘were out to kill him’. As a result, the ordinary people of Jerusalem ask of Jesus, ‘Isn’t this the man they want to kill?’ The gospel reading ends with a reference to Jesus’ opponents wanting to arrest him. 

We might be tempted to ask, ‘Why such hostility towards one who is so good? Why are people plotting to kill someone who came so that everyone may have life and have it to the full?’ The phenomenon of violence towards the innocent, the just, the good, is one we will always struggle to make sense of. Goodness does not always have its reward in this life. However, the message of Jesus, and his life and death, shows us that those who keep trusting in God and remain faithful to the ways of God will experience God’s vindication. God will not ultimately abandon his faithful ones, those who are faithful to the ways of his Son whom he sent into the world for our sakes.

>If we are to come to know the Lord more fully we need to keep praying, ‘Come Holy Spirit, Come Spirit of Truth’.

Let us always pray this prayer associated with a 13th English Bishop   
_O most merciful redeemer, friend and brother, may I know thee more clearly, love thee more dearly and follow thee more nearly, day by day_. Amen.

## Reflect
How has God come "relentlessly searching" for you during your life?

## Prayer
Loving God of forgiveness,  
I come before you humbled and sad in the face of my own repeated failings.  
I hold out my hands as a petitioner would, asking for mercy.  
It is then that I feel you reach out and take my hand in your loving grasp.  
Thank you for the love you pour out on me so lavishly.  
Help me to follow more closely in the path you have set for me, the path of your Son.     
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**