+++
title = "The Christ will not come from Galilee"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-28"
categories = [
    "Saturday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Saturday of the Fourth Week of Lent Year A 2020

Jeremiah 11:18-20
Psalms 7:2-3, 9bc-10, 11-12
John 7:40-53
```

Today's readings are both about recognizing God and responding appropriately to God. 

In the preceding passages in Jeremiah, God told Jeremiah to remind the people that they have ignored God's covenant and rules. They ignore God and they ignore God's messenger and worship false gods. In today's reading they want to eliminate Jeremiah who was reminder to them of their evil ways. But God "who judges righteously, who tries the heart and the mind" punishes the evil doers. 

In John's gospel there is debate over whether Jesus is the Christ. The concern is in the letter of the prophecy. The prophecy said that the Christ was to come from Bethlehem, but the Pharisees thought Jesus was from Galilee, so he couldn't be the Christ. He didn't fulfill the criterion. But of course he did.

Jeremiah also dealt with the letter of the law. The Lord God had said in verse 4, "Obey my voice and say to them, according to all which I command you; so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God." And God fulfilled his part of the bargain, but the people burned incense to Baal. The people in Jeremiah reverted to old gods and old ways. They had God's covenant, but they didn't fulfill their end of the deal. 

The Pharisees couldn't recognize God when he was among them because they were too caught up in details and didn't know the whole story. In both cases God was in their midst and the people could have had the benefits of God, but they chose not to obey God and didn't recognize the whole situation.

>How many times do we react to things without understanding the whole situation? Would the Pharisees have believed in Jesus if they'd realized he was born in Bethlehem? Or should his words have been enough, should faith have been enough? 

Two weeks ago in the Sunday gospel Jesus told the Samaritan woman that He was the Christ, and she believed him. And without questioning his birthplace. We don't know the big picture. We don't know all the details, or what God has in store for us. 

Sometimes we react without realizing what God knows, what is truly for the best. And often like the Pharisees we don't recognize God when He is in our midst, and we don't have faith enough. Doesn't God tell us every day that ultimately, everything will be all right? And don't we everyday not have faith and disbelieve that.

>Let us cultivate the habit of keeping a gratitude notebook. 

Every day find something to thank God for. Every day let’s remind ourselves that God is in our midst. And every day when we are tempted to react to a perceived negative situation, we remind ourselves that we do not know the big picture. We remind ourselves that God is around us all the time and made a covenant to take care of those who put their faith in him.

He's keeping his end of the bargain. We have to try to keep ours.

## Reflect
Is all basically fine with us, or do we need a saviour?

## Prayer

Lord,  
what you ask of our lives seems so right.  
It is how we want to live, following your Son, Jesus, so closely.  
And yet we fail so often to stay on that path.  
We cannot do it alone, loving Lord.  
We need your help and guidance.  
We need to remember your love for us and we want to remember how very much we need you in our lives.  
May we keep our bodies pure, as temples of the Holy Spirit.  
May we offer ourselves this day to the service of others, and do your will in all things throughout the day.  
Teach us to seek the bread of everlasting life, the bread that is your gift.  
May your Mother, the refuge of sinners, pray for us, and gain for us your loving forgiveness.    
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**