+++
title = "Neither do I condemn you"
description = "Lenten Reflections 2020"
date = "2020-03-30"
categories = [
    "Monday",
]
menu = "main"
+++

```
Monday of the Fifth Week of Lent Year A 2020

Daniel 13:1-9, 15-17, 19-30, 33-62
Psalms 23:1-3a, 3b-4, 5, 6
John 8:1-11

```

Today’s Gospel presents the story of the woman caught in adultery, which is one of the clearest demonstrations of what can called the scapegoat mechanism.

This is another one of John’s gospel demonstrating the mercy of God. God is not interested in our past but what the future will be. We should use this to engage ourselves in contemplative prayer to bring the story to life. If we use our imaginations as we pray it helps us listen to the stirrings in our hearts and brings us closer to God.

In this story, we embody the woman who has been accused by scribes and Pharisees of adultery. Imagine standing in the hot sun, our feets in the dust, feeling terrified as we have seen what happens to women in our villages who have been accused of adultery. We also feel frustration like Susanna in the first reading from Daniel, falsely accused as things are not always as they appear, and no one will listen to us. Anger wells in us for this lack of justice but we know better than to speak up. The crowd is growing, and we feel the negative energy surge through the people gathered.

Yet we are immediately comforted by the sight of Jesus who, rather than interrogating us or our accusers, remains calm. He is not dismissive but rather the opposite and is very present in the moment. This tranquility helps our fear dissipate and allows us to remember our faith in Jesus. Our curiosity builds as we see Jesus calmly drawing in the dirt. We cannot make out the images and we have no idea what he is doing.

When he stands up to confront our accusers, we could not believe our ears when he said: “Let the one among you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her.”  One by one the men who have accused us walk away and we realize we are not about to face a horrible death. Then Jesus says to her, “Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on do not sin anymore.” We hear support and encouragement in the words of Jesus. And we feel renewed strength to live our faiths in all aspects of our lives.

During this most unusual Lenten season as our world faces the unknowns associated with the pandemic, we should grateful to be reminded of the gentle and purposeful presence of Jesus. We pray to know that we are not facing any challenge alone. We ask God to show us ways we can calm down and supportive to someone, especially in these times when we cannot be physically present everywhere.  We pray for curiosity to be able to see multiple perspectives of a situation and to not leap to a quick judgement. 

Let us pray for spiritual, mental, emotional and physical healing for our global community.

This refrain from today’s Psalm is a powerful prayer for these unsettling times:  
_Even though I walk in the dark valley I feel no evil; for you are at my side._

## Reflect
Reflect on the prevalence of scapegoating in contemporary culture. Think especially about the times when you have been guilty of singling out an individual or some group as a scapegoat.

## Prayer

Father of love,   
We know that you are the source of all that is good and grace in our lives.  
Help us to move from the life of sin,   
to which we so often cling,  
into the new life of grace you offer us at     baptism so as to grow day by day in your likeness.
Help us to do what is good, right and true in your sight, and to seek you always with undivided hearts.  
May our generosity today bring joy to those in need,  
and in helping them, may we find you.  
Forgive our sins against the unity of your family.    
**_May the Lord bless us, protect us from all evil and bring us to everlasting life. Amen._**